Process Book

Overview and Motivation:
Our motivation was to be able to apply maps, multiple views and various visualization techniques to applications usable by the typical person. 
In the case of our project, we wanted to supply the user with movie recommendations.

The goal of the visualization is to find trends among popular movies to determine recommendations based off of certain film attributes. 
We hope to learn how to use transitions effectively so the user can determine his own qualifications to base his/her recommendation off of.

Related Work: We were motivated by the examples in class of what d3 interactions could do for a visualization and wanted to apply those
effectively in our own visualization.

Questions: We first had to determine what attributes the user was selecting to determine their selection. We then wanted the user to see any 
patterns between those attributes effectively to aid them in their selection process. We solved this by creating a menu of independent attributes
(genre, budget, production company, country, date) that the user can make a selection from, while a scatter outputs the relationship between 
some of its dependent attributes (revenue, rating). While designing the visualization, we also tried to look for interesting relationships 
between attributes that were worth making unique views for.

Data: We used data from a csv file containing a list of thousands of movies and our target attributes from kaggle. These attributes were 
budget, genre, company, country, date produced, revenue and rating. Challenges we went through while data wrangling were accessing all of the 
values of certain attributes such as genre or company when each movie held several of them contained in a string. 

Implementation: Our design starts with the implementation of a menu of bar plots for each independent movie attribute (genre, budget, produciton 
company, coutry, date). The y axis of each of these plots hold the count of movies, while the x axis corresponds to each attribute. By continuing to 
select certain bars of an attribute, the user can see the affect this has on other attributes, by displaying new fractions of previous bars with each new
intersection. This allows direct comparisons between selections as new attribute filters are selected. There is also a scatter plot where the y axis 
contains the range of ratings, while the x axis contains the range of revenue. Through the menu selection, the user can now see all of the movies 
in the selection in this scatter plot, which also displays the relationship between these two dependent attributes. see nextdesign1.png for a sketch 
of this visualization. 

Exploratory Data Analysis: Visualizations we used to initially look at our data consisted of the bar plots of movie counts of certain attributes.
Because we found certain attributes such as country or production company contained hundreds of individual values with each a count of 1, this
influenced our design into creating an "others" category, where all of the extra movies could be bucketed into. Comparison of those "others" categories 
also took consideration as they could form outliers that made effective comparisons difficult. 


Design Evolution: design_1.png, design2.png, and design3.png show the initial designs for the visualization. These visualizations consisted of 
a drop down menu which created selections that would build a scatter plot and a map of the movies under that selection. We realized the limiting nature
of the design because of the limited amount of views and comparions between the attributes that could be made. Because of these insights, our design 
was altered so the menu consisted of linked bar plots for our attributes, so when users made selections on one bar plot, he could view the impact that 
selection had on all of the other attributes. This created a much more fluid and interactive design that could potentially inform our user far better. 
Our design further changed so that new selections would create new fractional bars for the visualizaiton. This allowed for more effective comparisons of
each effect of an attribute filter. 

Analysis: We've learned of the heavy biases present in our data which means that to produce meaningful visualizations for relationships, 
our design needs to consider what to do with outliers. We've solved this by first treating the outliers with their own specific scale to fit the graph.
A precaution is used to warn the viewer that any fractional comparisons made with those outlier bars with other barse would thus not be accurate.
We could continue to improve our visualization by adding new views  such as a map for location that could offer the user new insight of some 
patterns between attributes that could not be as clearly seen before. 