Project Proposal

Basic Info: 
	Title: Movie Guru
	Team Members: Jason Shin, Alex Dougherty , Yayan Zhao
	https://github.com/shinjh2/cs3891-project

Background and Motivation: 
To be able to apply maps, multiple views and such visualization techniques into for life applications usable by the typical person. 
In the case of our project, to supply the user with movie recommendations.

Objectives: 
Our project’s problem of interest is how to make good movie recommendations. The goal of the visualization will thus be to find 
trends among popular movies and to determine recommendations based off of certain film attributes. We hope to learn how to use 
transitions effectively so the user can determine his own qualifications to base his/her recommendation off of. 

Data: We are using the csv file from the following link: https://www.kaggle.com/tmdb/tmdb-movie-metadata/download. From the dataset 
we will parse through the desired attributes such as genre, rating, etc..

Data Processing: Data processing should not be time consuming as the CSV file above contains all of the attributes we are searching for. 
As we parse through the file, we just need to capture the desired attributes which will be: Title, Revenue, Director, Date, Rating, 
Genre and Country.

Must-Have Features: One necessary feature is for the user to be able to enter in his/her own movie attribute values to build movie
 recommendations off of. For example if the user is looking for romance movies rated PG, then the visualization would utilize only 
movies fitting those characteristics. Another desirable feature is to show the distribution of movies among countries, which can be 
done by utilizing a map and a luminance key. We also want a graph that the user can look at to see all of the current movies fitting 
the desired attributes, which will transition into different points depending on the user entered attribute values. 

Optional Features: Optional features would be additional graph views depicting the relationships between two different film attributes 
so the user can see more patterns present among his chosen attribute values. For example, even if the user enters romance movies rated 
PG, a graph showing the relationship between directors and the revenue and directory could show which more interesting patterns among 
the user’s chosen selection which could affect his movie recommendation choice. 

Project Schedule:
The following coding goals will be met by each of us working on the repo on alternate days, and then meeting on the weekend to 
go over what has been accomplished and fixing any bugs we found together. 

Week of November 4th: Goal: Finishing data wrangling	
Week of November 11: Goal: Finish menu and map visualization.
Week of November 18 Goal: Finish scatter plot visualization
Week of November 25:  Finish transitions 
Week of December 2: Fix any bugs and plan presentation. 
Visualization Design:  
